@node Invoking
@chapter Invoking

@command{autohaltd} recognises the options:

@table @option
@item -h
@itemx --help
Print usage information and exit.
@item -v
@itemx --version
Print program name and version and exit.
@item -c
@itemx --copyright
Print copyright information and exit.
@item -f
@itemx --foreground
Do not daemonise the process.
@end table

Any non-option argument added before the first
occurring @option{--} is interpreted as the time
it shall take, after the last user logs out,
before the computer shutdows done. All of these
arguments are summed up, for the full interval.
Each of these arguments shall be a non-negative
integer, optionally with a unit. Recognised
units are:

@table @code
@item s
Seconds.
@item m
Minutes. This is used if the unit is omitted.
Note that @code{min} is invalid, you must use
@code{m} precisely.
@item h
Hours.
@end table

If no interval is specified, the interval
defaults to 1 hour.

Any argument added after the first occurring
@option{--} is passed to @command{shutdown}.
@option{-h} and @code{now} will always be
passed, at the end. You cannot add a warning
message, as this would have to be added after
@code{now}. However, a warning message is
unnecessary, as the computer will shutdown
immediately, and there should not be any users
on the machine when this happens.

Example:
@example
autohaltd 1h 30m -- -f
@end example
@noindent
Will shut down the machine 1@tie{}hour and
30@tie{}minutes after the last user logout.
@option{-f} will be passed to @command{shutdown}.
In @command{sysvinit}'s implementation of
@command{shutdown}, this means that @command{fsck}
will be skipped at the next reboot.

