.TH AUTOHALT 8 AUTOHALT
.SH NAME
autohalt \- Bring the system down if it is inactive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autohalt
.RI [ OPTION ]...\ [ INTERVAL ]...\ [\fB\-\-\fP\ [ SHUTDOWN_ARGUMENT ]...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B autohalt
shuts down the machine (power off), if noone has been
logged in for a long enough time.
.PP
.B autohalt
shuts down the machine only if the sum of
.I INTERVAL
has elapsed since the last user logout. Each
.I INTERVAL
must be a non-negative integer, optionally with a unit:
.TP
.B s
Seconds.
.TP
.B m
Minutes (default). Note that it is
.BR m ,
not
.BR min .
.TP
.B h
Hours.
.PP
Any argument added after
.B \-\-
is passed to
.BR shutdown (8).
.B -h
and
.B now
will always be passed, at the end. You cannot add
a warning message, as this would have to be added
after
.BR now .
However, a warning message is unnecessary, as the
computer will shutdown immediately, and there should
not be any users on the machine when this happens.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Print usage information.
.TP
.BR \-v ,\  \-\-version
Print program name and version.
.TP
.BR \-c ,\  \-\-copyright
Print copyright information.
.SH NOTE
This package will not function properly unless your
login programs logs logins to
.BR utmp .
Be sure to test it properly before deploying. It
also preferred, but not required, that logouts are
recorded to
.B utmp
in some customary fashion.
.SH RATIONALE
In environments where the number of computers is large,
you can save on the environment and save money by
turning of computers that are not used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR autohaltd (8),
.BR shutdown (8)
.PP
Full documentation available locally via: info \(aq(autohaltd)\(aq
.SH LICENSE
Copyright \(co 2015  Mattias Andrée
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH 
.PP
Copying and distribution of this manual, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
without any warranty.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to <https://github.com/maandree/autohaltd/issues>
or to <maandree@member.fsf.org>.

